all right folks welcome back
hope everyone's doing well
so we are in episode 37
of the continuing series of the ict
mentorship for youtube 2022. here's our
daily chart for the e-mini s p june
contract for 2020.
and you can see we have
worked inside this fair value got
this is also a breaker
okay breaker is a low
high
low or low find the high in between
extending out in time the market trades
down into that
it's also
coming down in to fill in
this fair value gap
so we came down fill that in
and now we're starting the rally next
bicep liquidity is this short-term high
here
and then if we can get some acceleration
from the upside
we have relative equal highs up here
and that fair value got okay so
for the students here that are looking
for
a little bit more meat on the bone
for bias
okay
when the market is moved from a low like
this and starts to trade higher and
creates a swing low it's easy to assume
that it might want to come back up to
this high here so notice how each day
with the exception there's one single
day here
each day was bullish
okay so the bias would be expected to be
bullish until we take out this high
it does that here
then
we have a day or two of retracement
which is logical because we created a
fair value gap here
it trades down fills it in once more
tests it and rallies
so we're looking for tomorrow which is
friday non-farm payroll is a day i do
not advise anyone to actually try to
speculate on
now there's going to be a
group out there that have said i've made
money doing
a non-profit payroll trades
my reasoning for telling you not to
trade
is because
you're here to learn how to read price
action so if i say
go out there and study non-farm payroll
friday price action which can tend to be
very volatile
choppy
or sometimes it becomes a dud it doesn't
do anything
but you don't have the experience to
weather something that's very volatile
and can be
jarring to you okay and if you're out
here trying to gamble with live money
which is what none of you should be
doing
if you're in here learning how to
reprice that's why you're here to learn
how to read price
months from now
if you come to the conclusion that you
think you've done well enough on paper
and then demo consistently
if you decide to go into live trading
you've done that on your own i've done
nothing to instigate that or try to get
you to do it okay
so
bias
is going to be derived from this chart
here
because
we're likely to run this short-term high
that's what i'm thinking i'm expecting
that it could happen overnight
there's there's nothing saying it's
going to wait until tomorrow 8 30 when
non-farm payroll comes out
but if it doesn't
run out this high tonight
at 8 30
if we're above
the fair value gap
high here in other words the
candle sticks low here if we're above
that level
at 8 30 and we have not taken out that
high
i would expect price to try to make an
attempt to get to that level it doesn't
need to go through it
but the bias would be i would expect
that to be
attempted okay
now does that mean go out and try to
trade not for a payroll tomorrow no a
lot can happen from the time of this
recording which is a little bit before
nine o'clock eastern time in the united
states
so i'm not trying to trade not from
payroll okay i'm not instigating any
interest for you to go out and do it
tomorrow but i do believe that you
should
study it
try to determine what side of liquidity
is going to reach for before 8 30 news
release and when that volatility hits
the marketplace
watch and see what it does on like a one
and five minute chart get a feel for
what it's doing
and it's an amazing study for liquidity
purposes only but unfortunately
sometimes these moves
can appear
well
to the untrained eye
random
and then to the initiated here
sometimes the patterns that i'm teaching
you in the logic materialize in the
chart and sometimes they do pan out to
script
but not always
so the reason why i tell everyone to
avoid like big days like fomc
and not from payroll weeks is because
you don't have the experience
and you can get hurt
very quickly
not knowing what you're doing so i try
to be responsible as a mentor
try to protect you from yourself because
like i was when i was younger it was
very easy for me to fall into a trap or
think i can do something i couldn't
so that way you understand
i try to teach my students to stop
trading by the new york session on
wednesday so if you had something that
was profitable quote unquote
up to that point stop trading for the
rest of the week and then
observe
just study the price action the rest of
the week but don't try to push any
buttons because you don't have any
experience working in these
sometimes very challenging market
profiles on the thursday and friday of
non-farm payroll weeks they can be
choppy they can be sporadic they can
come back against you when you really
don't expect them to and they lose a lot
of their precision
not all the time but most of the time
they lose their precision
so i want to be focusing on those days
where
i don't have those disadvantages where
everyone else is like well i got time to
be in front of the charts so it's gamble
and it's casino time
and that's not the way i do things and
i'm trying to promote the idea of a
super mindset about what it is you're
dealing and respect the measure of risk
so be mindful of these levels here the
two blue lines here
and that red line here it's a little bit
lighter than these you won't see these
on a lower time frame but this here is
that short term high here
and the two blue lines here are
respective to that fair value gap on the
daily chart
[Music]
all right hourly chart e-mini s p
market trades down to the discount
low the fair value gap again these
levels here are not drawn because of the
basis of support resistance on an hourly
chart okay these are the same levels
that i drew on
the daily and my change time frames from
daily to hourly
they transpose to these levels here
respectively okay
so the market trades down
on
wednesday hits the fair value gap low
then we consolidate and then we drop one
more time to it here then we make a debt
mad dash to take out the short term high
here we have a shift in market structure
that's bullish
we take out this short term high here
and relative equal highs
and now we're gravitating towards what
looks like a run on the buy side here
now it does not need to do that tomorrow
i could be wrong about that
i'm just saying that i think that this
is the next draw on liquidity so study
that that's all
now we do have a small little fair value
gap in here be mindful that you might
want to drop down into that before going
up there that's certainly something to
study also
all right on the 15 minute time frame
you can see here this is the
markup for
the short-term high here
on
wednesday's trading we hit the fair
value gap low on the daily chart
went back hung around in consolidation
rallied up
and i was in here trying to get a feel
for what it wanted to do i was thinking
that i could capture a run to take the
buy side out here
that's what i was aiming for initially
really early in the session
and this got chopped up a lot in here
and it's fine i really don't care about
that but once i realized it wasn't
trying to rally
and they we're going to try to take it
once more below the new york midnight
opening which is this candle here
i want you to take a look at
the way this day formed before i get
into any more discussion about it
we open here
consolidated rallied up and then dropped
down into
the fairway gap low
on the daily chart
and bounced there
rallied up took out the short term high
here and kept on rallying and enclosed
here
this
formation of price action
is what i dub my ict power 3 where it's
accumulating
manipulating
distributing
so it's
opening create the low of the day
and then rally
now
if you see this pattern
on a daily chart
it's easy to understand but when you
look at the lower time frames it's easy
to get lost in all the candlesticks and
all the volatility and the movement and
the quick fluctuations on these one
minute and five minute charts
that's why the uninitiated will look at
and say it's noise it's it's not noise
okay it's doing what it does on the
daily chart just being represented on a
smaller interval
like a one or five minute chart
so
if you lose the context of like for
instance the levels here
and here
you won't understand that it's dropping
down to the higher time frame
key level
which is the very very cap low
then the market can rally higher
but
once i got on side i shorted from in
here and
covered inside this candle as we were
dipping below the short-term low
i forced myself to engage not because
i'm breaking rules not because i'm
undisciplined but because i want to
teach you
why i avoid these days because
my precision drops precipitously
i don't have
the
the visibility on these particular days
that i do have on others
so
if you have a built-in advantage
why would you go to an area or arena
where you have built-in disadvantages
if you have advantages by trading on the
days that don't create these types of
conditions
you trade in those arenas and then that
time frame
and you avoid the times where
historically
your
proven walk forward real trading results
have been diminished on these particular
days so how many times you have to have
your
flesh torn open and bleed out before you
realize this is probably
a time of the month where i shouldn't be
doing anything or lower my expectations
in terms of the measure of precision
so over 30 years that's what i've come
to trust
especially as a mentor teaching other
people how to read price action i really
press upon my students to stop trading
on wednesday by the new york session so
if you haven't bagged anything
by that time from sunday's
weekly open until until wednesday's new
york session begins don't do any trades
and deal with that
desire of wanting to trade but don't do
anything
that forges discipline it forges
patience and it also teaches you
especially when the weeks are really bad
and it doesn't give you a whole lot of
movement you're going to be rewarded
psychologically and emotionally because
you didn't do anything
but
on twitter
i've coached those individuals there too
and i said don't take any trades don't
do it
and
today they did
and they regretted it
so
some people decide to listen to me after
the pain but my whole point in doing
these types of lessons in lectures is to
try to spare you from all that you don't
have to go through the same things i did
painfully to learn the lessons
so
listen okay it's for your benefit
so anyway
i went short in here and i shared that
on a vignette little tiny little video
clip
where you can see the uh the business
and the executions and such but
the
the afternoon
that's set up i want to go into that a
little bit
and
i didn't buy anything down here i didn't
do any of that turn here i was actually
shopping for some things that i need for
the summer so it took my attention away
from being down here but
once i got back to
the screens and i saw
the market dropping down into this area
here i tweeted
and i asked everyone on twitter
if they could find the five minute fair
value at the above price
and i gave them a minute or two and i
shared a chart in case
they were confused as to what it was
being discussed
so my expectation was we're here
and we were likely to drop into that
in the pm session so in other words as
we going into lunch and on the other
side of the lunch we could have easily
traded up into this area as an upside
objective and then i didn't mention it
but you obviously know if we get above
that movie the next logical
draw on liquidity it'll be about this
high here okay
so
on twitter if you want to go over to
twitter you can see this is my handle a
lot of you guys keep asking i've already
mentioned it on
several videos now but it's the at
symbol
capital i
underscore one time
am
underscore
t h e underscore ict i am the inner
circle trader or i am the ict
so you don't have to follow me on
twitter i'm not looking for a lot of
follow since i'm not trying to get
everybody to follow me in fact you can
just go to
twitter.combackslash and put this here
in without the at symbol and you can
look at my tweets they're not protected
so that way you don't have to join that
platform okay so i know there's a lot of
people that simply will not join because
all the politics is associated with it i
get it but
we're over there having fun
and hopefully you know you guys can
check it out and join the fun if not
then that's cool but it's a little bit
more time friendly
and easier to be alerted
unlike the community tab on my youtube
channel
i'm not really sure
why sometimes people don't get
notifications and sometimes they do
i don't know so when you guys contact me
or send me messages through tradingview
or whatever
asking me there's things i don't know
okay i just put videos up or posts and
if you get them you get them if you
don't you have to go to the actual
community post and see it but twitter
obviously has always been my playground
i've enjoyed it in the past and you can
see here the time
11 37 a.m this is local time eastern
time
and
june 2nd
i asked everyone
on e-mini s p five-minute chart locate
the fair value up above market price
that's this one here okay so i gave a
little bit of time
for folks to look for it themselves and
then
i gave this here okay so the market was
trading right
there and draw on look what it was here
okay
so
obviously you can see here
we did shortly after that it was bagged
and tagged
was it was trading up into that level
there
so the question is going to be
what's the purpose of that you know
what's the whole reason for me bringing
it up you know that's not a trade ict
that's not a a button being pushed
that's not a
an entry a stop and a target right
i'm teaching you by being your spotter
sometimes i'll see things and i'll say
look at this or study that
for clarity folks that is not a trade
signal i'm not telling you to buy or
sell anything
i am trying to inspire you to look at
price with the things i'm teaching you
real time at that moment
before it actually develops and delivers
in price before your charts actually
show it
i'm taking your attention to the right
side of the marketplace
i'm pointing to a level i want you to
study where we are at that time at
market price which is in this example
here
and then study how it gets to that level
i'm sometimes going to be wrong folks
okay admittedly i'm i'm gonna do it
wrong okay but i want you to study
from when i say take notice of something
and study and see if it wants to deliver
that
by a specific time
okay
i've noticed since um
i'll comment on something
on twitter
it's almost like it immediately runs to
it
so
that's also an interesting thing for me
i'm not sure
what to make of that but i know once i
say something
it's really quick to be johnny on the
spot and get to where i'm pointing to so
i'll leave that up for you to decide if
it's anything
noteworthy behind that
all right so this is a two-minute chart
and before i even get into this
this is not a trade entry and this is
not a trade exit okay if you look at the
shape of these arrows okay
i'm not trying to defraud you i'm not
trying to fake something i'm not trying
to pretend that i took this trade okay i
did not do it
i'm just showing you graphically this is
how you would have your chart
so if you want to journal things after
the fact what you want to do is you have
your chart set up like this and you have
an order block
the down closed candle prior to this
move up here and then we drop after
consolidation
into the fairway gap right there
right here is where i tweeted
look at this
very valuable
so price was here
that was the moment of the tweet and
then up to here it delivers
so the pattern is this
okay
so when you have that you go back into
your charts you mark it up like this and
then over here you want to put down any
observations how long did it take
before this
move started to be delivered to the
upside
after it went into the fair bay gap well
this each one of these candles is two
minutes right
so it went into it here
here said it's four minutes and then
six minutes
and then starts delivering six minutes
after hitting it
and then it took
one
two three four five six seven eight nine
roughly 20 minutes to deliver that
expectation and price so it went from a
discount
how's this discount
we moved from the low to here
think about what's being shown
we are
above
the new york men like opening price
so the market
dropped down to a discount creating the
low of the day now we above
this opening price and we're going into
lunch
here is
the new york session lunch hour
so we have time before 12 o'clock for
this to potentially deliver but i was
giving it time see if it wants to go
there in the pm session which will be on
the other side
of lunch around one o'clock to 1 30 and
then start to deliver that but like i
was mentioning moments ago
lately when i post or talk about
anything it's like
it wants to get there right away
so again make of it what you want but
after you have your
annotations on your chart you want to
basically put down any observation that
you notice but you want to
phrase it in such a way like you saw
this in advance so what happens is
you're tricking your subconscious into
believing that this is a
experience that you really had
and it's like self it's called self talk
okay you're reassuring and reinforcing
something that would be a positive thing
for you
and while you may not have seen that
trade and you didn't have the experience
that i was showing on twitter today
before it happened
you borrow that experience for the study
but in your journaling your chart would
look like this okay and then you would
fill in these little areas where it
where it would draw on your observations
the things that
you saw come to fruition and never try
to put anything negative in it don't say
i wish i would have saw this or i was
foolish and i didn't see this unfold and
i missed another trade or
i'm never going to get this this is
frustrating
these journal entries are for you
to reflect upon
at a later time
and you want them to be positive you
want to basically
cheerlead yourself in your journaling
and keep things very fact oriented
everything is a matter of fact
and you want to phrase it like you saw
it beforehand and over time how much
time i don't know but when you do this
for weeks and months maybe half a year
or so certainly by the first year of
doing it
you will have tricked your brain
into having all of this pseudo
experience
the benefit of this
because you're logging the chart and
making it look like this and retaining
and then referring back to them
each weekend looking at the previous
week looking at the previous month and
just scrolling through your charts and
reading your annotations
yes it's laborious yes it takes time yes
it is boring in the beginning but when
you start learning to see these things
form live
then you'll understand the benefit of
having done it
because this is how you get it
nothing else gives it to you watching my
videos will not do it for you you have
to be in here doing this part if you
fail under my tutelage it's because you
don't do this
okay this is where everybody that fails
starts their tailspin into failure they
don't want to do this stuff they're like
i ain't doing that i ain't got time for
that
well then you don't want to succeed
because i'm telling you there's no
shortcut around it you will do this or
you will fail period and the story have
a nice day
now notice what we have here we have a
short term low here during the new york
lunch
hour
we're consolidating the market drops
back down
and takes out that short term low
we have unfinished business about that
old high here
this is a stop run
here
and it just slowly drifts up
and takes that old high out the only
setup i liked was obviously the short
and the re-entry in addition to the
short i did and you can see that on the
vignette that i posted on
twitter so i'm not going to bog the
video down here with that it's already
made public
the afternoon session or after the low
was formed
notice there's no model entry for what
i've taught you so far
but we have a nice fair value gap with
the continuation of the upside with a
fair value gap i was pointing out real
time before it happened
so this would be the only other setup
which i did not take it's i didn't trade
this in a demo account i didn't demo
trade it but i did give you the logic to
look for real time in twitter before it
unfolded so
this is the framework that you would
have in your journal and everything i
mentioned in this
lecture tonight hopefully was insightful
to you and helpful and i will touch base
with you again next tuesday lord willing
until i'll talk to you next time be safe